# stacksmith-cli
CLI utility to talk to https://stacksmith.bitnami.com

The main use case is to call this utility from the build automation (CI) tool that
already builds your application and let Stacksmith build cloud images for you.

## Install

You can fetch a binary for your platform via the [Github releases](https://github.com/bitnami/stacksmith-cli/releases) page. For example, on linux:

```
  VERSION="<pick the latest release version>"
  wget https://github.com/bitnami/stacksmith-cli/releases/download/v${VERSION}/stacksmith-linux-amd64 -O /tmp/stacksmith
  sudo install /tmp/stacksmith /usr/local/bin/stacksmith
```

The stacksmith CLI is also available as a docker image:

```
docker run -ti gcr.io/bitnami-labs/stacksmith:${VERSION}
```

## Example

1. Create an application on https://stacksmith.bitnami.com
2. Create a `Stackerfile.yml` file pointing to your app and your local build artifacts to upload
3. Depending on the template you might also want to add custom build and run scripts
4. run `stacksmith build`

See full example in https://github.com/bitnami-labs/stacksmith-ci-example using Travis CI.

## Documentation

The CLI tool offers inline documentation for commands and topics:

```
$ stacksmith help
$ stacksmith help build
...
```

## Configuring CI authorization

If you need to run stacksmith build on another machine, e.g. as part of an automated build job,
you obviously cannot rely on the interactive `stacksmith auth login` tool on the server.

You can generate and export a token for such purposes by following these instructions:

1. Make sure you have a working account on https://stacksmith.bitnami.com

2. Download the stacksmith client (see the [release page](https://github.com/bitnami/stacksmith-cli/releases)) for your platform and authenticate. This command will open a browser window which might ask you to log-in into stacksmith if you haven't already:

```
stacksmith auth login
```


3. Generate a new access token. You can add a description to your newly created token so you can later manage your access tokens more easily:

```
stacksmith auth access-tokens create --description my-CI-integration
```

4. Copy&paste the output of the previous command (the long string starting with `MDAxOGxvY2F0aW9uI...`) into a secret env var, e.g. `STACKSMITH_ACCESS_TOKEN` on your CI system.

## Consuming build results

The `stacksmith` CLI utility will output the build logs to stderr and, in case of success, a Build Spec JSON object on stdout.

The Build Spec JSON object contains, among other things, pointers to the build results, such as the AMI ID or the docker
image name or the deployment template URL.

Here's an example that shows how to perform a build and retrieve the Helm chart generated by Stacksmith:

```
$ stacksmith build | tee image_spec.json
$ stacksmith get template -s image_spec.json -o my-helm-chat.tgz
```

The Build Spec also contains a snapshot of all the installed packages. You may want to instruct your CI system to
archive this file along with your build artifacts for future reference.
